what is up everybody welcome to another
episode Facebook live Q&A I'm your host
Tom bu and I'm here with the voice of
this amazing lamb everyone listen D how
much you want to tell me about that yeah
that's shirt this is one of us is our
TTS UBC which I need to work on
memorizing as I only ever see it like on
you right myself because we never had
women's apparel and now we do we do and
I think it's being hidden right now by
your computer oh here it is
boot ours one two like place it in front
of but our women's apparel is officially
launching tomorrow officially going we
did this photo shoot so you'll see lots
of different styles and have a good time
purchasing let us know what you think oh
yeah because we definitely kept our
ladies waiting we did we did
unfortunately bye
so we just brought on another oh is she
here Michelle
we make everybody come say what's up so
we have a new addition to the team you
were saying it took us way to the ladies
apparel a long time to get the women's
apparel because it and that reminded me
that we have the newest ladies with
their show welcome welcome
she's going to be helping Lisa crushed
the chirag podcast for us it's all one
big team so we're very excited to have
you yay and yesterday in adding the
newest amazing person team I realized
that we are now more than 60% female
here at impact so amazing but horrifying
that it took us this long to get female
apparel up in the site I know but it's
also because I'm very picky about right
Lisa
female apparel just because I know as a
consumer I'm you know kind of a
difficult person to shop for because I'm
always looking at fabric quality fit
function all that so I wanted to make
sure that our ladies had nice options
for this door and we could you know give
them an accurate assessment of what
we're getting love it yeah and now it
drops tomorrow drops tomorrow officially
beautiful we didn't notice you yesterday
guys so we'll have some fun pictures for
you to check out that is amazing so
alright that is off and now we
have a question that you're going to
leave this up with this is very so our
first question comes from Shawn Mathis
from the connect inbox I am 44 I'm
married I have two boys 10 and 12 that
are very active in sports my wife has a
thriving freelance graphic design and
art direction business I work in
technical sales for a large
international corporation life is crazy
busy I want to get off the corporate
sales hamster wheel and create something
a business that is meaningful to me I'm
struggling to find an interest forget
about a passion at this point I have
always done what was expected of me
studied hard got good grades got a good
job bought a house etc etc I have never
explored Who I am or what excites me I'm
convinced I should and can start
something meaningful I'm struggling to
find a meaning due to the fact I don't
really know who I am
how do I start this journey where do I
begin
what is the lead Domino yeah this
question is amazing Shawn thank you so
much for sending that in I think there
are a gaggle of people that are
struggling with this exact same issue so
I have a belief about well so first of
all passions are not discovered they're
developed so if you don't have a passion
don't be surprised you said that you've
never turned inward and really looked at
yourself to figure out who you are and
then that self exploration so that
that's the nature to be so that is as
that's an inevitable outcome of not
doing the introspection so the good news
is that it really is a relatively simple
process so right now inside of you is
something that you find interesting
intriguing it piques your curiosity
whatever the case may be and 99 times
out of 100 especially for somebody who
is a self-described rule follower and
I'm reading a book right now called
barking up the wrong tree and it's about
basically what makes people successful
and the things that we think make people
successful are not necessarily the
things that actually do and I'm not very
far into the book but I have a sense of
what the premises which is a lot of the
things that we think are bad or negative
trades actually
in the right circumstance will help
somebody thrive so think of somebody who
in fact I'll give you an example from
the book one of there's a thing called
Race Across America where you get on a
bike and you ride from I think Santa
Monica or San Diego maybe to Atlantic
City and most people go oh it's like the
Tour de France but it's not because the
Tour de France is done in stages there's
rest periods in the race across America
every minute that you spend taking a
break somebody else is passing you so
these guys will go like four days in a
row without sleeping and it's just
absolutely bonkers people have died on
the race
crazy crazy so the person who's won more
times than anybody else has gotten into
fights with mailboxes has like literal
punch ups with mailboxes because he's
like a little like really put himself
out there and so in the sort of sleep
deprivation he'll have emotional
breakdowns and like his wife at one
point got so distressed over how
obsessive he gets about this that she
locked herself in the trailer and like
wouldn't come out she was freaking out
over how much he was freaking out so
looking at that guy like in a normal
setting he'd just be like he's a little
too obsessive like he gets way way way
too into something but you put him in
that environment and suddenly it becomes
an advantage right so it's you often
hear people throughout the very trite
words that your weaknesses or your
strengths and when you don't explain
what that means I think that it doesn't
really add up to anything but that's a
great example of a time where that
really becomes something that's
incredibly advantageous so inside of all
of us I think there is a spark of
something and people don't want to admit
what that is and if they're a rule
follower like it sounds like our boy
Shawn is instead of a rule breaker
somebody who's who's got like some weird
thing about them that they really feed
into and surround themselves in an
environment where that can thrive they
they don't discover themselves so as
he's describing himself as like I did
all the things that were always expected
of me I got good ways all of that
another thing they talked about this
book is how valedictorians never go on
to be like the breakout successes in
life they do very well in high school
they do very well in college for that
reward
for doing that so you're going to be
entering into a phase and in fact may be
the very thing that is the lead domino
here is a willingness to step outside of
all of that to not worry about what the
social constraints are what other people
are going to think of you you really
have to be prepared to break out of that
and understand that the game that you're
playing is not pleasing other people the
game you're playing is brain chemistry
and so the only thing in his question
this is going to be weird coming from me
I think people are going to be surprised
about it
the only thing in this question I find a
little bit like ah I wouldn't double
down on that is needing to start a
business so I don't think that's how the
vast majority of people are going to
express themselves so my gut instinct is
you will find that deeply uncomfortable
if what you've excelled at is really
like getting into the system leveraging
the momentum of society and all of that
to carry you downstream it it may be too
weird of an emotional turn to now all of
a sudden like because the unless if the
wife's her business can support the
family that maybe this isn't as true and
you can really try an experiment but
there is a lot of stress that goes along
with running a business and if you're
not wired for that like I'm very I have
a real problem with authority
so for me being my own bosses always
felt right even though I'm a natural
rule follower which is so weird and I
totally get that and it's a one on one
thing that I rebelled against more than
like the system a it's even confusing to
me okay so I think the LEAs domino yes I
think the lead domino is stepping
outside of the system no longer allowing
yourself to care about what people think
then you're going to have to turn
inwards and find that thing that's that
first twinge of interest and I always
use video games as the classic example
of something that most people think is a
total waste of time
where if if when you look inward the
thing that you really like let's say his
comic books or it's video games or it's
something that society is going to tell
you just isn't a value add if you can
see how that can serve you and you can
help other people or whatever it is it's
going to make you feel good in that
thing then you'll understand how this
process works so let's say he looks
inward and he doesn't see feeding the
homeless building houses in Peru like he
sees secretly what I want to do is play
video games great like be honest about
what it is and I think that you're
really going to have to own what that is
or this is going to in fact this is the
huge thing you have to be careful of if
you're a rule follower you're going to
want to look inward and see something
that the rest of the world will tell you
is beautiful and advantageous and worthy
that is dangerous you need to turn
inward and see what's actually there
that's so important so when I look
inward for instance I see movies TV
shows video games books comic books a
real desire to pull people out of the
matrix a desire to learn something and
then present it like I really enjoy
giving talks I really enjoy this
creating this content so what you're
seeing is me going okay
the other thing I know about the world
is techne is the thing that leads to
fulfillment so I've worked really hard
to gain a certain skill set and I can
put that skill set to use in helping
other people okay that's that's a big
part of it so you turn inward you find
that interest techne is just meaningful
it's the way the human animal is wired
so there's going to need to be some
sense of leveraging your skillset and
maybe it's already the skillset that it
sounds like you have in sales so when
you turn inward and you see that thing
whatever it is how do you marry that
ideally to either the skills that you
already have or skillset that you're
willing to acquire then to help other
people so if it's video games so I'll
tell you right now that a piece of
content that's always been in the back
of my mind maybe one day I'll write an
article or it maybe we'll write a
book on the subject is what I've learned
about business by playing video games
and what I think kids can learn about
life and by the way I think video games
are probably the way that video games
work are almost certainly the future of
Education okay so that's me turning
inward and seeing ooh I like that thing
like I find in fact the shirt that I'm
wearing right now is a video game shirt
so when I turn inward I see things like
that but there are ways to marry that to
techne a certain skill set that you have
so I have an ability to assimilate very
complex information and make it
relatable and accessible
to other people especially if you let me
speak or write so that would be like
what his process would look like if it
were me so I turn inward I see the video
games how do I make this useful how do i
leverage my skill set in order to bring
it to other people that I'll be
fulfilled but also be in the universe of
things that I like Lee domino stop
caring about what other people think
next thing is the process of turning an
interest into a passion so how do you
turn an interest into a passion by
gaining mastery in that realm so that's
how you'll decide whether it's something
that you actually really care about or
not so in that process which would be
very difficult will involve a lot of
boring things if you love that
environment so much like I'll just tell
you I find writing to be brutally
painful I think it was Tim Ferriss that
said I like and he may have been quoting
somebody else but I got it from him I
don't like writing
I like having written that is exactly
how I feel the process of writing is
just an inexhaustible period of facing
my inadequacies so all I'm doing the
entire time is encountering the fact
that I am a rewriter that my first draft
is always horrific that every word is
like I think the best description I've
ever heard of the writing process was
from Kurt Vonnegut jr. and he said I
feel like a toddler with a crayon in his
mouth you know trying to write on paper
and I was like that is exactly what it
feels like it feels so clumsy but anyway
like getting into that process if you
love that environment and the outcome so
much and the universe of things you're
able to do while you're in that bubble
then it's worth all of that boredom pain
struggle suffering and like for me it's
not even a debate right so I'm I'm very
willing to go through all of that to
figure out how to articulate an idea
because that moment of awakening for
myself quite honestly and for somebody
else is so powerful that it's amazing so
but there are many other things that I
tried that that wasn't the case and so
those are the things you move on from so
that's um you could write an entire book
to answer that question but those are my
key takeaways and and
final one being you're absolutely
correct you must do this to live your
life and never have been introspective
and figured out what it is that makes
you you or maybe even more important
because it's about defining what makes
you you and I think people want to turn
inward and uncover something but it's
really not how it works
you're going to turn inward and you're
going to develop something based on
maybe little sparks but it isn't like
some big thing it's going to be
something like think about if I were
born a hundred years ago I certainly
wouldn't turn inward and see video games
like that's a product of my environment
so it's a product of the time that I
live in so understand that you're going
to develop something based on those
little sparks so look inward see the
sparks do the work alright hopefully I
answered your question John and thank
you for submitting our next one comes up
from Matt Damon what's your take on
personality tests such as myers-briggs
anagram etc have you used it do you
believe it believe that it has any value
and/or frankly is it Olbia I don't think
it's all bs i myers-briggs is a great
example of if you have somebody take it
and then take it I think as little as
two hours later they'll score
differently so there there's very
revelatory stuff in that I don't think
you could do too many of them but I
think to feel like you have somebody
pegged when you know their myers-briggs
rating I don't think that's real I just
think there's way too much nuance now
the one thing I will say is I just read
the book captivate and we have a Vanessa
van Edwards the author coming on and one
thing she talks about is the only sort
of personality assessment that's backed
by science is thing called the five
values I think and that I found really
really interesting so first of all it's
very blunt force trauma which I'm a big
believer in like it's just sort of high
level clumsy like oven mitt stuff like
they think of what's a great example so
I have the acronym is ocean which stands
for openness so I'm high open which
means that I
have a high degree of desire for new
experience so I love doing new stuff so
for instance my wife and I almost never
repeat the same like vacation spot so I
knew this guy and somebody told me a
story of a guy I should say to be honest
that did the same vacation every year
for like 25 years and I was like what
the hell so that's super Anathem it to
me I like change I like things to be
different I it is an understatement to
say I like change okay so I'm high open
see conscientiousness
I am very low conscientiousness which
means I don't plan ahead
I don't worry about mess I don't have
lists and things like that just the I'm
not obsessive like that and my thinking
so I never give in to that stuff II
extraversion I am an ambivert at best
possibly edging towards introvert so I
recharged by myself for sure and one of
the questions I asked in the book is how
many good friends do you have and I was
like uh my group of friends is teeny
tiny if you exclude people I work with
it's essentially non-existent just
because I always want to be by myself so
OCE
a hug god what's a agreeableness I'm hi
agreeable so I love getting along with
people
um and then n is yeah neurotic neurotic
knows neuroses it's something along
those lines and I'm very low neurotic so
I don't fret about things I don't worry
about them so that is like a ball to put
people in gives you a rough idea of what
I'm like you're not going to get any of
the new ones or anything like that but
it's a rough idea that actually really
resonated with me when I was reading it
and I started thinking about like
where's my wife and then we were talking
here about everybody reading the book
and then all us all getting together
because it's the first time where I felt
like it's yeah it's sort of simple
enough to where you could really feel
like you have a rough idea of how this
person views the world like my wife for
instance hi open lo agreeableness she
does not give a what other people
think like in
a almost combative way which is really
interesting and then she is high
neurotic she's high conscientiousness
and I'm forgetting which one I missed
Oh extraversion my wife's introverted so
I need to think about that one more I'm
actually curious where she'd self rate
herself she's the kind of person that
wants to go to a party but then cancels
at the last second every time I'm not
sure like thing where that that's why
you leave it there because I just don't
know where she actually wants go and she
loves to dance on an onion he does yes I
probably really like my sister
fascinating so like most of the times
I'll be like the invitation X is
extended there's no expectation that you
will go and so it makes her feel better
just because she always used to feel
guilty whenever she would just feel like
I want to go and I'd be like why
wouldn't you want to go you said yes
because I just you're full extrovert so
I'm ambivert 'add probably closer to the
extroverted selca yeah interesting but
like I and I think I've adopted a lot of
like introverted traits because most of
my family is really introverted really
so I don't know I was just kind of the
odd one out please there we go
so that's a very long way of saying I
think there's use in them I think it is
fascinating to try to isolate what makes
people tick I think it's important to
understand yourself more than anybody
else yeah
yeah and I think you can use them as
kind of like rough guidelines for
yourself just to kind of give yourself
more words to figure out what fits and
what doesn't so you can throw it out
with adopt it and then a follow up from
Jumaane what are your thoughts about
strengths strengths finder
I haven't used it I'm relatively
familiar on Sept disk yes so I don't
know either of those well enough to
really go deep but I'll lump them into
the same category there's probably a lot
of it'll force you to be introspective
which is already good it'll probably
give you some insights into yourself it
would probably give you some rough
insights and other people I find that
most of it tries to be too new
Johnston becomes very sort of momentary
dependent and when you get into like the
really nitty-gritty like I remember
taking the myers-briggs test I was
pretty long if I remember right yeah and
and I remember as I was going through it
like depending on what mood I'm in I
could go like either direction and so
that was what I liked about ocean like
there is no question where I fall in
each of those categories so that's right
I come down it gives you like a better
sense of definitive answers when you're
taking it does and because it isn't like
backing you into any sort of weird
corners that feel like they could be
different from one minute to the next
I mean yeah even just looking at my life
historically like sure are there times
where I'm less open than others yes but
like if you look at my life I crave
change so yeah that one just felt on the
money to me
alright this one comes from raha morado
from the connect inbox as well right
this is an interesting one I recently
started watching your show and it's got
me hooked however there's one thing I
can't get past in an interview with
David Goggins
Tom you talked about his weight Tom
talked about his and lisas decision not
to have kids because it would be hard to
teach them the importance of suffering
I'm paraphrasing as a new mother this
makes me discouraged so if the universe
played a trick on you and Lisa became
parents so if the universe played a
trick on you and you and Lisa became
parents what three things would you most
definitely do and what were you things
would you not do okay well this is
fascinating I've never like grew
certainly not okay so here we go
I would I would make them suffer so that
is one thing and making them suffer is I
would make them do hard things so
whether that hard thing is just God my
parents made me do a lot of manual labor
so and as my data we said this will
build character and it really did
I'd like to think I could find a more
interesting way to do it so I'll I will
tell you this I would certainly make
them start martial arts that's one of
those things that I wish I had done when
I was younger um I would have them start
that and I probably like I would use
Angela Ducksworth notion of you can quit
but not until after you've done like the
full time let's say a year whatever so
once you start like you're doing you're
come hell or high water you got to do
the hard thing stick with it but if at
the end of that you're like this really
isn't for me then for sure we'll let you
back out I think that is a strong magic
I would not spoil them so obviously our
kids would grow up with access to
resources and I think that that can
really really distort your view so
making sure that that they really
understand hard work like that is the
core of my existence is hard work so I'd
want to make sure that they really
busted ass I have a hard time with the
current education system like if I the
thought of putting someone back to it
like it doesn't bother me that I went
through it and I don't feel like you
know any huge deficit or anything but
looking back at it now the thought of
putting someone else through that meat
grinder like I did okay going through it
but I think that it's really bad mojo
for a lot of people so I'd really be
reticent to put them through traditional
schooling ah what else would I do
empathy and compassion I would just make
sure that they learned that that they
were kind good people yeah making them
nightly rituals that would be another
big one do you remember Oh a Jayhawk yes
his whole thing with his kids at night
like that is yeah that really hit me oh
and that's another important one so look
up Geoffrey Canada he talks a lot about
what's the difference between somebody
that grows up in a middle-class family
and why they going to be successful
versus somebody that grows up in the
inner cities and why they going to
struggle and in an oversimplification of
what he found it goes something like
this the number of words that you hear
by the age of like it's either three or
five very distressing so just the raw
number of words you hear and then the
ratio of positive to negative
develop the language centers in your
brain and sort of give you a frame of
reference for the world if and so
according to him it's something like the
average kid in in a middle-class family
here is I think 70 million words or
something by the time they're five
whatever the age was and the ratio is
70% positive to 30% negative and in the
inner cities it's like less than 50
million words and the ratio is exactly
flipped and it's 70 percent negative and
30% positive and he said that is so
damaging to the language centers of
their brain and the frame of reference
becomes one of the negativity that they
just they're not able to ever overcome
that and so he actually said god I
really need to refresh myself in this
because I really want to get him on the
show I'm almost certain he said just
patently give up on adults and that is
one of those like nuggets of wisdom that
I have so eschewed like I can't bring
myself to do it but that is his ignite
so now he tries to build programs for
women who are pregnant or may become
pregnant to get them to read to their
children every night and like some other
things is utterly fascinating so that's
a very clumsy nutshell of what I would
do because I'm not put a lot of kids
I've not put a lot of thought into it
but I'd be interested to know like what
about bilingual household children
well when Lisa and I were thinking about
kids we were like how do we bring like
an au pair from Greece so that the kids
actually learns to be Greek and that
here's the problem and I'm not sure if
this is where you're headed but within
10 years you'll have like a little
device and it can translate any language
like languages are going to go away it's
going to be weird I'm traumatized about
that that's so interesting to think
about umm but yeah so we have shout out
coming in from awhile Martin in
Bakersfield so if they go now they go
like things like Jim what do we do these
people you know one at a time I guess
I'm secretly Josh Bob and Sue hang in
Springfield Missouri and Debbie Caprio
and Redondo Beach
everybody welcome wait I think Debbie is
Jason's mom really hey yeah hey mom what
is it ace welcome to the feed all right
by the way your son's amazing Kreskin
well done correctly bone alright so this
next question comes from Kelly Foss what
time of the day do you personally find
you can do your best work early early
early in the morning like early
like 3:00 a.m. early high and that's
yeah that's me it's called Wyatt what
else is it there's a very very little
distraction yes that was the reason in
college I would stay up till like 2:00
and 3:00 and 4:00 o'clock in the morning
yes that doesn't work for me now for
sure and I don't know that it ever
worked great because for me like fatigue
really starts to set in and I can feel
myself getting slower and slower and
slower as we go whereas looks like today
I woke up at like 3:45 so I'm up I'm in
the gym before 4:00 a.m. I'm done in the
gym by 5:00 a.m. and so like I'm like
fully on my grind it was a really
awesome thing to take day took a lot of
rad notes I was like these are one of
those days that I talked about where
like 30% of the time just like smash it
you're like oh my god is amazing today
was one of those days absolutely
phenomenal and like doing all of that
like there's something about so this is
my jam so I sit in a dark room still
dark outside I've headphones on that are
playing the sounds of night like you
know like the crickets and stuff and
meadow and man like I dare and I yeah I
don't know if it's like that is just
like hardwired into us to like really
getting us into a state of profound calm
but wowza
unlike any other time like even so I'll
give you another time I love meditating
so we have a waterfall in my backyard so
I'll go sit in the waterfall right and
so like all you can hear the water cause
it's like smashing down on you and that
is amazing but it doesn't compare to
that morning where the world is dark I
can't even see anything and I'm sitting
in a dark room so I don't even see the
so it's just dark and I hear the sounds
of the crickets I feel like I could
solve any problem in my life in that
zone like when I can because I do it
right after meditating so I'm in like
this calm creative state like that for
me that is the juice that's super
interesting because like when you're
just talking about how it's like very
dark it just reminded me of when I went
to the sensory deprivation better and
the fact that you would think that you
would get like bored I was like oh like
how am I going to be in here for two
hours before I knew it they were like
knocking on the door and I was like wait
did I fall sleep like what was I even
thinking about because you just lose all
sense because you're so combined confine
them I'm going to need to try that you
have to try it I like it
it does not sound interesting so like I
think you would like it there's like
something about it I try I guess yeah
there's like something about it because
I went into it was like a completely
open mind and can tell you my beat
you can't take notes so I have a rad
idea I would worry that by the end I
would forget it and so there would be
this are you definitely oh sweet I
actually thank you you like cured cancer
while you're in there didn't you and
then you like what was it again I'm
not sure if I was like but it was it was
interesting to let your brain just like
run like that and see what you see or
hear what you hear well that's another
thing so auditory hallucinations are the
most common type of hallucination and
they come from your ear not receiving
input and so then it just starts making
up which that's weird and I think
probably the source of tinnitus which is
why like if you destroy some of the
eardrum you could surgically remove it
let's say they're having tinnitus you
remove the eardrum that's an idol so get
worse because I'm gonna guess it's
actually your brain freaking out about
the null signal and filling it in with
something it's kind of like phantom
limbs and drumming now why you don't
hear Bach instead of like the noise that
it gives you I'll never understand it's
definitely nature yeah what did you hear
I feel like I was so I was
being a symphony and like did you drop
LSD no I just went into plan 9 you were
silly music though in it I feel like I
was I was seeing a lot of different
colors we're totally going on a changes
so let's ignore that so seeing a lot of
different colors and they were depending
on where I guess my eyes were moving but
I'm not sure and if I close my eyes they
became more like vivid but like when you
open your eyes there's no difference so
it was it was really interesting because
I was seeing them almost like they were
moving notes which made me kind of think
of like this must be similar to what
synesthesia feels like for some people
because like I think there was like it
felt like a symphony like I was feeling
like a symphony I was like floating kind
of like in a universe space in the world
but like I don't like the place is small
so I'm not really what my Genie was um I
was there she was just like we're
deprivation thing yeah so she I think
she'd been to one this would have been
the second time she gone the first time
she freaked out and she left early
because it was like you know we were
small and dry when it were so like I'm
not sure if it was like claustrophobia
for her or not but she said she freaked
out and so she left and so this next
time she's like you should come with me
like I signed up and I was like okay
sure
and then I went with her and it was cool
it was interesting and like her
experience of it was a lot different
than my experience so yeah yeah and she
was like I'm surprised you made it
through the whole thing I was like I
probably could have just stayed there
yeah well I'll have to give it a shot
but definitely check it out all right so
our next question is from Rizwan Missoni
hey Tom is there an age limit of
learning things like piano and can you
learn to skills together absolutely not
there's no agent well dead dead is the
age limit so as long as you're alive you
can learn something I mean that that's
just like brain plasticity one
one that doesn't mean that the brain
doesn't go through periods so it's like
you take in virtually everything until
the age of like 11 or 12 and then brain
goes through like a pruning process and
so it does start to prioritize things
but if you're going into a disciplined
practice mode you can learn at any time
100% myelination occurs at every stage
of life and then what was the other one
the other part of the question can you
learn two skills together yeah I don't
see why not
see man yeah no question all good brain
is an adaptation machine adaptation
being like the physical correlate to
learning absolutely and I can't believe
we haven't said this already but if the
speed is adding value to your life
please share it to help us grow our
community word we got like so wrapped up
in our conversation and Bertram at the
little things there it is all right sure
sir
so our next question comes from Daniel
breeze or Boyden mm-hmm hey guys do you
think that if you haven't figured out
your Y yet that you should spend your
time developing good habits are there
any habits that will help you find your
way I don't know I don't think there are
habits that are naturally going to lead
to a why unless that habit is like
introspection where you the done me do
the work why is an interesting one
because I'm really curious to know and I
have never thought about this so if
you're building a company got to have a
why once you have a family that becomes
most people's wise and I remember when I
was interviewing a lot I would tell
people other than your family
XYZ right because the family is like
everybody's answer magic Genie shows up
and gives you one wish I wish for my
family to be happy and secure okay okay
easy chief like other than your family
like you the magazine shows up gives you
seven point four billion dollars what do
you do take care of my family it's like
once somebody has a family
neurologically forget it like that they
are hard-wired to prioritize their
family so if we can remove that from the
equation then what does the average
person like what becomes their Y and the
terrifyingly true and
is to make ends meet that's it that's
where the vast majority of the known
universe lives to make ends meet now the
good news is one of the best things to
come out of the way that Millennials
were raised is they have this real
expectation that their life is going to
matter that they are going to have
impact I love that and if they can
figure out the mechanisms by which to
develop that why but I would be very
curious to know like what the average
person thinks of as their why because my
gut instinct is they don't have one like
their their aimlessly seeking to get rid
of that feeling of frustration and
emptiness that's what I think most
people are doing and they they never
develop a real like and I think because
again they're expecting it to be this
uncovering process and it's not going to
be that's going to be a development
process in fact let's talk about my
obsession with freeing people from the
matrix there was a wonderful accident in
my life I wanted a bit of extra credit
in college okay I happened to attend a
university that is in the middle of the
ghetto USC like if you've never been to
the USC campus it is like ghetto ghetto
ghetto ghetto ghetto beautiful campus
ghetto ghetto go together get up okay it
is so weird and so you're there your
on-campus teacher says who wants extra
credit oh dear God me and he said great
you're going to go teach in the inner
cities and I was like okay well that's
what I have to do to get extra credit I
went I taught oceanography an inner-city
school I was mortified beyond measure by
how drab and horrifying inner-city
schools are in the LA public school
systems the only one I can speak to it
was mortifying and everything about it
was gross except the kids were amazing
and the kids were so just full of life
and I was like wow like any other kid
right they have not been beaten down by
the man the system to whatever they were
so hungry for knowledge that it was
insanely rewarding so then I go back and
I think it was again like somebody said
do you want extra credit yes
so I don't know if this is like USC
really tries to get teachers to do that
but they were like this time you're
going to do one-on-one mentoring now I
wasn't smart enough to think the people
that the teachers give you to take out
of the class are going to be the most
dysfunctional children ever and so they
gave me this kid rashon talked about him
before he was enough he was i won't air
all of his dirty laundry
he was problematic let's just say that
wildly disruptive in the classroom and
he was being medicated so he was like
really small and hyper aggressive which
was very jarring for me anyway he works
he figures out how to work me like like
a little mental ninja and so he would
ignore me push me away get into fights
with other people I was only supposed to
be there for an hour for almost the
entire hour at the envied hour when I
say I'd have to go in ten minutes he
would start crying flipping out please
help me like oh don't leave and I would
fall for it every time and so I'd say an
extra hour so he'd get a stay out of
class for two hours the first hour
fighting me pushing pulling screaming
freaking out and then the next hour
being a very diligent good boy post
tears and so they say hey at week six
you need to remind them I'm only coming
for two more weeks so week six I say eh
just a reminder it's an eight week
program only coming for two more weeks
and he loses his and I was like
what I've never seen a human being
meltdown like this and I was like I
don't even understand what's going on
and tweaking tweaking tweaking tweaking
tweaking and so finally I'm like is this
about me like because keep in mind it
wasn't like hey I'm only coming for two
more weeks oh man you I can't
believe you're only coming for two more
it was just like spaz attack and so I'm
not like putting it together at first
and I'm like is this because I'm not
coming anymore yes fine for if you'll
calm down and stop doing this like to
our thing we're for the first hour
you're a little psychopath and then for
the next hour you're diligent if you get
to work right when I come as long as I
live in Los Angeles I will help you deal
deal and that became an 8 and a half
year relationship because of that I
spend an inordinate amount of time
he lived in Compton literally Compton
and so I would because he kept getting
moved so first he was there by us see us
he's not in Compton but it's Intel
Central so met him in South Central he
ends up moving to Compton I started
going to Compton and bringing him back
to like nice neighborhoods to see movies
and stuff like this way anyway become
sort of a big brother relationship and I
get to see like the unending horror that
is the inner cities that plants have
seed in me to like want to help people
realize there's a path out of that but
there's a whole nother world that they
can plug into and be a part of and then
because of quest because I was already
framed for that and I saw and all these
kids that were coming to work for me
another Roshan it was like just really
solidified and me this it becomes
literally the central Y of my life to
help people out of the matrix but had I
never met rashon I would have had a
totally different framing coming into
Quest if I hadn't been the first of the
three of us to go there I wouldn't been
the one in production which was why I
was so close
because you're hiring laborers for that
so it's inner city kids undereducated
those are the kids coming through so if
either of my other two partners had been
the first ones to move over the quest
they would have been the ones doing
manufacturing I would have never had
that other encounter so what would my Y
look like that I don't know so it's I'm
telling you like this stuff isn't
uncovered it's developed it becomes a
thing like sure I've innate I love
seeing other people win so that played
into it it do the work look inward turn
a spark into a fire but that takes work
it takes asking a lot of questions it
takes following your bliss which may be
the best advice ever floated into the
universe by Joseph Campbell who said
there there is that thing that you enjoy
like for whatever reason I really
enjoyed helping Roshan I really enjoyed
helping the people at Quest like I
really really enjoyed that and that you
develop into your why develop it and I'm
just going to show up it's gonna be
built brick by brick brick by brick
all right so this next question comes
from Rishi sorry sorry
Rashmi sorry I've been diagnosed with
multiple mental illnesses I have become
homebound people started to shut me out
of their lives now my parents are always
raging at me because of the talks the
community gives them I'm mostly in my
room now all day it's been a lonely
journey so far how do you explain to
your families that mental illness isn't
contagious and that it isn't my fault
and how do you come out of it Wow that
is an insanely big question and I'm
going to give you an answer but I will
just say this right now in no way shape
or form am I qualified to give somebody
advice on how to battle through a mental
illness now having said that I think the
only way to be useful is to give you
some sort of an answer while it is very
hard to accept that some people are
going to reject you no matter what I
cannot tell you what a fruitless battle
it will be to try to convince other
people that mental illness is not a
contagion like and first of all that's
not what they're worried about it makes
them uncomfortable because they don't
understand it they can't relate to it
and so when people aren't wired for that
empathy when they're not wired to like
really just have an unending desire to
reach out and like figure out how to
help and all that even when they're your
parents like meet them with empathy show
them as much compassion as you can but
understand that they're not going to be
able to give you what you need and
mental illness or not you're going to
have to take responsibility now I've
people in my life is very very close to
me that have struggled profoundly with
devastating mental illness I'm talking
like there are spiders on my face no
there's not dude everything's fine like
that kind of mental illness and when
even though it's hard even though it's
unfair all of that is true when you take
responsibility for it you can begin to
unwind some of that stuff make available
to you any and all resources if you can
afford it to work with a professional if
you cannot afford it there are many
resources online to at least connect
with other people that have been through
it so that you can get some of the
shortcuts and the hacks and tips and
tricks from them and quite frankly
support those are going to be people
that are
really understand that it's not
something that's contagious they've
already had to deal with the fact that
much of the world is going to push back
and shun you and all of that so finding
like-minded people that make you feel
emotionally safe that is absolutely
critical that's really really important
and then man if I were you I would
research the living out of the
brain like I would know the brain
forwards and backwards I would
understand what is generating whatever
neurological issue that it is you're
struggling with and I would treat it
just like I would treat it if I had
damage to a limb either from birth if I
had a birth defect or if I got in an
accident or something and had to deal
with a permanent injury and I would just
try to figure out from a physiological
level what can be done how can this be
addressed is it something is diet
exercise meditation like what are all
the things and you'll notice I named all
the non-drug interventions first I would
do all of those and see how much I could
maximize my improvement and then I
wouldn't be afraid to try to try drug
interventions and see how much they help
I would not self medicate I would be
working with professional ideally quite
frankly a professional that had been
through some of this so that they have
first-hand experience and they really
know what's going on but I would take
responsibility for everything I would be
my own advocate I would be watching like
oh I don't struggle with my microbiome
but my wife does and every day I
research the microbiome to try to help
my wife because I take responsibility
for that so you're going to have to take
responsibility and you're going to have
to completely jettison notions of fair
because you're going to ask yourself a
thousand times why me and there is no
answer so the only y is genetics and
environment
you got Delta rough hand and now is your
chance to rise above that and show
that you can play it to an amazing
degree so there are incredible in fact
the guy that the movie A Beautiful Mind
is based on was a paranoid schizophrenic
so and yet a movie called A Beautiful
Mind is about him there are ways you can
deal with it in the movie they address
it like he knew he hallucinating people
like full-blown people and so he would
just find somebody trusted in his life
and say is this person real
and if the person was like there's no
one there then he would know okay you're
not a real person
I mean that's like incredible like if
you can just get at that point where
it's like okay this is the truth of me
the person I was referring to earlier
they would look in the mirror and they
would see a spider on their face and
they'd just be like at first it would
freak out and then they began to
realize okay that's one of my
hallucinations I know it's not real and
so I'm not going to twig out about it
and so you have to like work through
that process alright hopefully that
helped Rishi our next question comes
from Mitch Phillips first time watching
live I'm hyped welcome to the bead
I love the podcast keep it up Tom and
team what do you think is the most
important skill for an aspiring
entrepreneur to pick up apart from the
growth mindset of course that so you
just robbed me of everything that
actually matter I was like it and it's
like oh stop so everything beyond the
mindset is specific to what you're
trying to be good at so whatever your
path is going to be whatever that area
is that you want to be great at the only
other sort of it it all comes back to
mindset other than very specific skills
so that's the truth I don't know what
industry you're in
but knowing more about your topic than
anybody else borders on a superpower so
research research research and while
this is mine study everyday I think to
myself dude is a man because you're
willing to outwork people and I can't
tell you like I live in my document the
most important things and I get like so
almost everything that list sucks and I
hate doing it that's part of what makes
it important is it's all that connective
tissue it's dealing with lawyers it's
contracts it's moving games across the
line it's make sure things are
monetizing it's all that if you can
learn to connect that feeling of doing
the hard things with pride in yourself
then you'll level up because now it
actually feels good so even though any
one of those things like isn't fun to do
I'm so proud of myself when I just do it
immediately
I don't hesitate I don't bulk like I
can't tell you how many times I've
turned my phone on and I want to go
straight to the amazing comments that
you guys post and trust me all I want to
do is respond to you all day and then I
realize nope you opened your phone to
get to most important things and so go
right to it and then I allow myself the
secretion of dopamine not to go into the
comments but instead for going into most
important things so like you have to do
tricks like that in order to be willing
to do the things that other people
aren't willing to do that is how I've
built my career 100% well there you have
it all right so this last question
before we do a comment is from Roman hop
hey Tom I'm still very young 17 years
old and I feel stuck should I find a
mentor work for someone else or should I
start a business immediately am I very
certain that one day I'm going to create
and run a business but I don't know if I
should work for someone else and develop
my skills or take the leap of faith and
go for the startup already so at the end
of the day men honestly you probably
shouldn't worry about starting a
business unless you have an idea that is
so compelling and so pressing to you
that you have to do it even though
you're almost certainly going to fail so
starting your own business has become a
bit like starting a band it's become so
cool and I love that by the way I love
that being an entrepreneur is like the
new cool it's the new rock star
I think that's amazing and all
for it but understand that everybody has
to be a musician so you don't have to
start a business if you're not sure what
to build your business around then I
wouldn't worry about it I would start
laying your foundational skills I would
focus entirely on learning subjects that
you care about I would focus on being a
linchpin employee which is worth its
weight in gold and then if in that
process of getting great at the game of
helping someone monetize doesn't need to
be your own self in really playing that
game seeing if you can rise up the ranks
if in that process you realize there is
like a business you have to create to
keep your sanity then do it and then if
you fail like it doesn't matter right
there's a great deal on must quote when
something is important enough even the
probable outcome is failure you should
still do it
so but you've really gotta believe like
I cannot stress enough like how gritty
and determined you have to be to fight
through the ocean of pain that is coming
your way when you're trying to build
something like it just isn't easy it is
so difficult it's a thousand little
battles every day and so you've really
got to believe in what you're trying to
do like for instance when I'm really
stuck and I'm like god I like continuing
to push forward I think of the very
specific people that I'm trying to help
I think of like right now there's
somebody who's stuck like Sean who wrote
in and the two kids and the wife and
never having been introspective and like
how do I get that or like somebody in a
refugee camp like how do I get the
message to them the world does not want
me to get the message to them the world
is going to do everything it can to stop
me from getting the message to them
so how do you leverage like that to
fight through all the hard stuff and I
find that most people like it's just
it's now become like this socially
pressured thing to like start a business
the vast majority of the world should
not start a business and not because hey
only some of us are cool enough to run a
business it isn't that it's literally
like you're teaming up right you need
amazing a players on your team which
means there have the vast majority of
the world needs to focus on being in a
player and then let people who for
whatever weird biological wiring
environmental way they were raised
whatever really want to start the
company and then team up and then at
some point if it becomes an imperative
for you switch change direction right
cool alright so we'll round out with a
nice comment from Jeremy Rogers
oh gee what's up guys who have been on
board with you all for almost a year now
and seriously Tom you and your team have
provided so much value to me personally
results in the last year include reading
30 books most of which were on your
reading list develop the growth mindset
use this growth flash entrepreneur
mindset to grow small business out of
the nonprofit organization that I run so
much value from the bottom of my heart
thank you wow that's amazing
man thank you yeah incredible we live
for stuff like that around here
no appreciated that's what we fight for
and with that if this live feed was
adding value to your lives make sure
that you share it we're always looking
to grow the community we're here more
stories like Jeremy's yeah not kidding
so thank you guys so so much we really
appreciate it
by the way drop in your comments send
questions to connected impact theory and
we will definitely be getting them we're
trying out a new thing that we're doing
which is the Tom Amma series where if
you submit your questions a lot of them
we don't have time to get to during
these because there are a lot more free
flow I do a lot longer answers more
exploratory some of it is me going
introspective in my own universe the
Amma series is we take batches of like
30 questions and do two-minute answers
each they're really fast really punchy
so submit your questions there we've
answered everything from do I like
turtles
which was a wonderful question to the
important stuff so anything you want to
know submit those you can end us up at
the connect inbox and if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be a legendary take
don't forget to shop tomorrow women's
apparel hashtag word go ahead